Available
## Retrieved sermon context
### 1. THE SERPENT’S SEED — 1958-09-28
- Retrieved chunks: 11

Chunks:
- ¶101–¶105
Stay with it. Certainly. Purpose in your heart, like Daniel. Stay with God.
“Where did this all happen? How did it take place? What makes people thus? Why are we just about ready to be destroyed? Brother Branham, explain to me. What makes you think that this whole thing has got to be wiped off?” It was wiped off once before, (is that right?) in the antediluvian destruction. Now here comes some deep things. And we’ll get ready to read.
Now I want you turn with me now, over into the Book of Genesis, at the 3rd chapter. If you want to know anything, I can show you in this Book of Genesis where every cult and every ism, and everything that we got right today, begin in Genesis. How many knows that Genesis means “the beginning”? Certainly.
We find the Catholic church in the beginning, Babylon, Nimrod the founder; we find it in the middle of the Bible, we find it the last of the Bible; we find, trying to bring in women preachers, in the beginning of the Bible, by worshipping little statues made out of roots. How many have read Hislop’s, Two Babylons, the history? All right. Find out, in these histories. They had a woman…And then, do you remember? Even Jacob stole his father’s gods, and his daughter hid them under her and took them out there in the wilderness, which defiled the camp, later on. All right.
Let’s read here now in Genesis. Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, has God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? …the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden: But of the fruit of the tree…in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: For God does know that in the day that you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, (see, hunting new Light), and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. THE SERPENT’S SEED

- ¶135–¶137
The lowest form of life that there is is a frog; the highest form is the human being. God started at the bottom and made right up, till He brought it plumb to His image. Brought it through the birds and the beasts, and on up, till He got to the image of God. He made man in that image. That’s the highest form. The lowest form is just a polliwog that turned into a frog, and so forth.
Now, this missing link, that they can’t find. Watch the Scripture now. You, you’re going to disagree with this, many of you, but I THE SERPENT’S SEED want…I just want you to bear it in mind. And don’t be prejudiced against it. Listen.
I know many of you has just been listening to Dr. DeHaan. I certainly…As a man of his caliber, and a good Baptist brother, and I certainly appreciate him. He’s got more intelligence and brains, and—and forgot more than I’d ever know; ’cause he’s a Doctor of— of Divinity, and he’s a medical doctor, and he’s a Doctor of Science. He’s a smart man. But he’s saying that those…When the sons of God saw the daughters of men were fair; he takes Josephus’ stand, and say that “they—they pressed themselves into human flesh,” and taken unto them wives. And there were giants in the land of Nod. “And they taken themselves wives and lived with them, when the sons of God, fallen Angels, taken and seen the daughters of men; and the sex desire was such a great thing, and yet them being sinful from falling, they pressed themselves into human flesh.”

- ¶153–¶157a
There is some blood between here, and they can’t find the animal. Oh, Hallelujah, I’m getting to feel religious right now. Notice. Why? God hid it from them. There ain’t a bone in a snake that looks like a human bone. He put the thing so far away that it couldn’t be discovered by smart men.
And I’m going to show you where that smart man comes from, where—where he’s at, anyhow. See, he can’t come through that.
It’s got to come by revelation, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the…” “Upon this rock I’ll build My Church; and the gates of hell can’t prevail against it,” spiritual revelation. How did—how did Abel know to offer a lamb, instead of Cain offering the fruits of the field? It was spiritually revealed to him. You don’t get it by seminaries. You don’t get it through denominations. You get it from Heaven.
Now watch the serpent, this serpent which was first. Let’s draw a picture of him now. He’s a great big fellow. He’s between the chimpanzee and the man. And, the serpent; the devil, Lucifer, knew that that was the only blood that would mix with this human blood, the only person he could deal with. He couldn’t deal with the chimpanzee, that blood wouldn’t mix. He couldn’t deal with different things. He couldn’t deal with the sheep. He couldn’t deal with a horse. He couldn’t deal with any animal; he had to deal with this serpent.
Let’s take him now and see what he looks like. He’s a great big fellow, prehistoric giant. That’s where they find these big bones, and I’ll show you this in the Bible. Now watch closely. All right. This great big fellow, let’s say he—he was ten-foot tall, great big shoulders; looked just like a man. And his blood, after coming down, coinciding one animal to another; you can cross animals; and it kept getting higher blood, higher form of life, higher form, till it climbs up into the man realm. But the last connection here, between here, was cut off. How many knows that science can’t find the missing link? All of you know that. Why? Here he is, the serpent. Here he was, a great big fellow.

- ¶157b–¶163
And the devil comes down, now, he says, “I can inspire.”
Now, when you go to looking at women and the action of women, you remember, you are anointed of the devil (and it’s not your own wife).
Notice, now, the devil come down and got into the serpent. And he found Eve in the garden of Eden, naked, and he talked about the fruit in the midst. The midst means “middle,” and so forth; you understand, in a mixed congregation. And he said, “Now, it’s pleasant. It’s good to the eyes.” What did he do? He begin making love to Eve, and he lived with her, as a husband.
And she saw it was pleasant, so she went and told her husband, but she was already pregnant, by Satan.
And she brought forth her first son, whose name was Cain, the son of Satan. “Now,” you say, “that’s wrong.”
All right, we’ll just find out whether it’s wrong or not. “And I will put enmity between thy Seed and the serpent’s seed.” What? The serpent seed! She had a Seed, and he had a seed. “And He shall bruise thy head, and you shall bruise His heel.” And a bruise, there, means “to make an Atonement.” Now there is your “seed” of the serpent. Now, notice, here comes these two men out.
Now, this serpent, when he stood there, this great big giant of a fellow stood up there, he was guilty of committing adultery with Adam’s wife. Where’s sin lay today? What makes things the way they are today? Now, I—I…Surely you can catch what I’m talking about. And there it was. And when he did, God said, begin to call for Eve and Adam. And he said, “I was naked.” And He said, “Who told you you was naked?”

- ¶164–¶171
Then they begin to, the army fashion, passing the buck. Said, “Well, the woman You give me, done it. She was the one who persuaded me.”
And she said, “The serpent give me an apple”? All right, preacher, get next to yourself.
She said, “The serpent beguiled me.” Do you know what beguile means? Means “defiled.” The…she…the s-…devil never give her an apple. “The serpent has beguiled me.” And then the curse came.
He said, “Because you listened to the serpent in the stead of your husband, you took Life from the world. And you’ll—you’ll multiply your sorrows; and your conception shall be to your husband,” and so forth. THE SERPENT’S SEED 23
“And because you listened to your wife, instead of Me (I’ve took you from the dust; the highest specie), back to the dust you go.”
“And, serpent, because you did that, off goes your leg. Upon your belly you’ll go, all the days of your life. And you’ll be hated. And dust shall be your meat.” There you are. There is that missing link.
Now here comes Cain. Let’s watch the natures. Here comes Cain. What is he? He’s a shrewd businessman. He tills the fields. Smart, intelligent; religious, very religious; watch his—watch his attributes now. Just move with me just for a few minutes longer.
Here he comes up. He knows he’s moral. He wants to go to church. He builds him a church, makes him an offering. Brings an altar, and all. Built an altar, put his flowers on it. Put the field…the fruits of the field, offered it to God. Said, “There You are, Lord. I know we eat apples, that’s what caused it.” Some of his offsets has got the same kind of an idea. Shows where it come from. Brought his apples in, out of the field, laid them on there, said, “This will make an atonement.” God said, “It wasn’t apples.”

- ¶172–¶178
But, by spiritual revelation, Abel knew it was blood. So he brought a lamb, hacked its throat, and it died.
And God said, “That’s right. That’s what done it. It was blood.” You know what blood I’m talking about. All right. “It was blood that did it.”
Now watch. And then when Cain saw his holy-roller brother had been accepted before God, and signs and wonders was being taking place down there, he got jealous of him. He said, “We’ll stop this stuff right now.” Look at his brothers, look at his children, on today. “Now, I’m smarter than he is,” so he got angry. Where did angry come from? Could you say that the anger…? He killed his brother. He was a murderer.
Could you call God a murderer? And Adam was the son of God. The Bible said, that, “Adam was the son of God,” that pure beginning back there. Adam was God’s son. And that jealousy and envy, and everything, could not come out of that pure stream.
It had to come through another place. [Blank spot on tape—Ed.] And it come through Satan, who was a murderer, to begin with. The Bible said, “He was a liar and a murderer, to begin with.” And there it is. And he killed his brother.
And that was a type of the death of Christ. Then, out of that, course, He raised up Seth to take his place. Death, burial, and resurrection of Christ.
And watch, then, here comes your giants. Then Cain went to the land of Nod. If his daddy was a great big giant of a fellow, what would Cain be like? His daddy. And he went to the land of Nod, and took one of his sisters.

- ¶179–¶183
Only way he could do. There’s no more females could come, but only through Eve. They claim they had seventy sons and daughters. If—if there was no female…The Bible don’t record females when they’re born, just men. And when, if there was no more females than Eve, when she died, the human race ceased to exist. She had to have daughters. And he had to marry his own sister.
He went to the land of Nods and got—and got his wife. And when he married her in there, there is where they found those great big giants, which were fallen sons of God; who came through their daddy, the devil, through Cain. There is your missing link.
And watch the seed of the serpent. Now watch. Remember, the seed of the serpent is religious. Watch it start moving now, for a few minutes. Here it goes, the seed of the serpent. What happened to them? Now let me just read something here, I just wrote down this afternoon.
What come through the line of Abel? Listen to this. All right. Along came Abel. After Abel come Seth. After Seth come Noah. After Noah come Shem. After Shem come Abraham. After Abraham come Isaac. After Isaac come Jacob. After Jacob come Judah. After Judah come David. After David come Christ, to the perfection.
Watch back there how the Spirit of God lived in Abel. Look how It lived in Seth. Look how It lived in Judah. Look how It lived in David. Look at the same Spirit calling out, through that righteous seed, all the way down. No matter what they done, they were predestinated.

- ¶191–¶196
Oh, I forget just what you call that now. Theophany, is what it is. Just in like…Not a myth; but yet it’s just something made manifest. Like He come to Abraham in the tent up there, like an angel, and prophesied, and told Sarah she laughed, behind Him, and so forth. The thing, same thing.
And here He was. He met Melchisedec. And grand-…great- grandfather Abraham, in the seed of the righteous, paid tithes to Melchisedec; and it was allotted to his great great-grandson down here, the seed of the righteous.
Now here comes the seed of the—of the serpent. Now, remember, there will be enmity, war between them.
The seed of the serpent comes along, and what does it produce? Now let’s take the first few years. Now watch what takes place there. We’ll read it right down, ’cause I’ve just checked it up. The seed of the serpent produced Cain. Cain went to the land of Nod, produced giants, and then they come to the land of Noah.
They were smart, educated, intelligent people. Is that right? They were builders, inventors, scientists; not through the seed of the righteous, but through the seed of Satan, the serpent. They were such men as—as scientists, and builders, and great men, educators. The Scripture says so. They worked brass. They worked iron. They worked metals. They invented things. They tempered different metals, and built houses, and so forth. Scripture says so. And they were scoffers at the seed of the woman, Noah, the righteous. Is that right?
Let’s follow them a little farther. Then, we get them up to the ark, everything was destroyed. Got in such a conglomeration of sin, and they took the rule, and smartest and intelligent. Till, God looked down, there wasn’t very many left, so He just took Noah and his family in the ark, and rained the water down and destroyed the whole thing. Took Enoch up, beforehand. That right? There was all the seed, almost all the seed; but He has purpose has to be fulfilled.

- ¶197–¶203
Now, Noah and his sons, which come out, Ham, Shem, and Japheth, come out in the righteous line.
How did the seed ever get over? The seed come over in the ark, just like it did in the beginning, through the woman, their wives. They carried the seed of Satan, through the ark, just as Eve packed the seed of Satan, to give birth to Cain, through the woman.
You put them women in your platforms for preachers, the Bible condemning it! Paul said, “If any man thinks hisself to be a prophet, or even spiritual, let him acknowledge that what I write is the commandments of the Lord; but if he be ignorant, just let him be ignorant.”
That’s why I walked out of the Baptist church down here. Brother Fleeman was here a while ago; I think he was there that night. Dr. Davis said, “You’ll stand up here and ordain these women for preachers.” I said, “I will not do it. No, indeed.” He said, “Well, I’ll throw you out.”
I said, “I’ve been throwed out of better.” I said, “This is the Word of God, and It condemns the thing. And I cannot hold up for what God condemns.” No, sir.
Ever who does it, is showing they’re false teachers, false prophets. The Bible said they would be. “Deceive the very elect if possible.” There you are.
Notice this now. And out of there, then, come Ham, Ham with his wife, and them. He had a curse put on him. From Ham come Nimrod, who built Babylon. Out of Babylon come the Catholic church, the beginning of it. Come on down through Ahab. Come on down from Ahab, into Judas Iscariot; wound it up, the antichrist.

- ¶221–¶224
But you see where the seed of the serpent? What was the seed of the serpent? Adultery. You following? Adultery with Eve. What happened to that? What brought that forth? What is it tonight?
Look back yonder, a few years ago, when the first song come out. You older people, when the…They used to censor songs before they’d THE SERPENT’S SEED 29 let them be sung on the radio. And the first one come out, was that, “Roll ’em, girlies, roll ’em, showing your pretty knees,” and all like that. “Laugh at pa and ma, and give them all a ‘ha-ha-ha!’” That’s the first one they let slip through. Where do you think the guy is tonight that wrote that song? He’s dead.
What do you think of Clara Bow, who come out the first and said the, Dangerous Curves, and the striptease that sent thousands of souls to hell? Where do you think she is tonight? She’s been dead for a long time. Where is she at, with that body of hers? Laying yonder, cankered in the dust, and the worms and maggots has eat through it. And her soul lays yonder before a just God.
Where is the man that took that woman and made them old dirty- looking clothes that they put on, to push them all out in one way and the other, and misfit them? Said, “What’d they do it for? Why do you wear those kind of things for?” Cause you want men to look at you, and no other way to prove it.

- ¶270–¶275
I want you to show me one Scripture where it ever said a apple started the thing to going now. I want you to show me that they eat apples. I’ve showed you that where Cain thought the same thing, and where his seed still thinks the same thing.
But the spiritual revelation of God proves, by the Bible, that it was sexual intercourse between man and woman, illegally. There is where your giants come from. That’s where your sin come from. That’s where your corruption come from. That’s where it’s come down.
Now notice in all this—this, look, the—the serpent was twice as smart. His seed has always been twice as smart. And I’d like to climb up on this pulpit and grab this microphone in my hand, and stick my feet over the pulpit, and say this. And, today, where is your great intellectuals? Your pastor that’s gone down and got a lot of intellectual THE SERPENT’S SEED 35 knowledge, and he stands up; he’s the pastor of the biggest churches there is in the country, and so forth like that. Where does the seed of the serpent stand? In the smart intelligent places like that; smart, shrewd scholars. There is where he is at. That’s where he lays.
“Not by power, not by might, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord.” See? There’s where you…
Then you take a little brother standing down on the corner, crying his eyes out, and maybe standing down there beating an old guitar, saying, “Brother, come, find the Lord!”
Pastor walk by, say, “Huh! Wouldn’t have my congregation… Why, I wouldn’t associate, wouldn’t let my…wouldn’t let Liddy and Johnny and them see me around such a place as that.” Go on, seed of the devil, you’re headed for your Eternal destination, anyhow. That’s right. I could have said another word there, and said “bastard children,” and that’s just about where it’s at. For, you see, you…

### 2. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS — 1964-08-30
- Retrieved chunks: 2

Chunks:
- ¶314b–¶318
He had a place for a soul, but what did he do? He sold out to Satan to deceive God, try to. How many gets it now that far?
Satan, the serpent, almost had a soul. God knowed they’d look for those bones, and there’s not a bone in a snake that looks like the man. He was…That’s the curse of him. He stood upon his feet just like a man.
Notice, then that seed, which was next to the human seed…Satan himself, the spirit, knew that that was the only seed that would pregnate the woman, ’cause the chimpanzee won’t do it. They’ve mixed it and QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 61 everything else; it won’t do it. But he knowed that the germ of life that was in the chimpanzee would not come to the field of the woman egg; but he knowed the serpent’s seed would do it, so he dealt with the serpent.
And Adam had never knew that this act could be done. See? She was made a female. Certainly, she would’ve come to it later; but you see, the sovereignty of God to display Himself as Saviour and—and so forth, as I’ve explained many times. But Satan knew this, for he come to her in the form of this serpent, which was the beast; and a—a beast, and came to her. And she was pregnated by Satan first.
And if you’ll notice, there was only two acts done, and there was three children born. Search the Scripture. She gave birth to twins. One of them was serpent’s seed; the other one was Abel. She enticed her husband and told…See? Then she showed her husband what it was, and then he lived with her also, and she bore this child. And I want you…to show she was pregnated with twins by two different…She was a…That’s virgin woman.

- ¶329b–¶333a
Cain, the serpent’s seed, slew his first son which was a type and shadow of the serpent also slaying his other son, Jesus. And Seth took his place in the genealogies, which meant the resurrection, that the genealogies of God would completely be carried on.
I want to see somebody put him in there now and say it wasn’t the serpent’s seed. It wasn’t recognized in the genealogies of God’s, or neither the genealogies of the human race, the genealogies of Adam, any of the rest of them. Is that right? How many believes it, say, “Amen.” [Congregation says, “Amen.”—Ed.] Sure. He was not; he was the serpent’s seed and not Adam’s seed!
She said that was Adam’s son. It was not Adam’s son. She said, “I got it from God.” And she had to, it was a seed. It was a seed, but it was serpent’s seed. See?
And He’d had to come back a virgin then in order to clear up that sexual act that’d been done. Adam was put here on earth, but he’d— he’d never found out that he was to be a father. You understand what I mean. Satan knowing this, he got to Eve before Adam got there. And there’s where the whole thing lays today. And brother, that’s what makes marriage and divorce and everything else such a scrumble as it is today. It’s most pathetic. See? But I…God has made a way, to which we are thankful.
Do you love Him? Isn’t He wonderful? Now, is the serpent’s seed right? I thought maybe somebody on the tape would…might think I was afraid to attack it. You see? So they’d say, “Why, he bypassed it twice. He’s just afraid take ahold of it.” We’re not of that. As long as the Lord’s in it, that’s all right. You know what? As I said, that eagle that time I watched, feeling his wings, you know. I thought, “Aren’t you afraid of me?” I had my gun setting out there; I said, “I could shoot you.” He knowed I couldn’t shoot him; I was too far from that gun. I said, “Are you afraid?” He just walled his big eyes and looked at me.

### 3. THE HARVEST TIME — 1964-12-12
- Retrieved chunks: 1

Chunks:
- ¶305–¶309
There is that church carnal (can’t you see it?) that accepted something, was the adultery instead of the Word. Pentecostal people, bless you. All right, what did he produce to Eve? The seed of the serpent. What has it done in this last days, by denomination? Produced the seed of the serpent, again, rejecting the Word. What did he offer? Fruits and things, not the Blood.
By revelation of the Word, God’s Word before It was even written, “Abel by faith offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than that of Cain, which testified that he was righteous,” the Word reflecting Itself through him, by his offering.
Oh, Cain went and got fruits of the field, he thought that Eve eat an apple. Most the theological seminaries has changed that now to an apricot. It was an adultery. And anybody knows that, that knows the Bible. Sure, it was.
Notice, the serpent’s seed was produced by the first Eve’s getting away from the Word. The second Eve done the same thing at Nicaea, Rome. And what has she got? A bunch of denominational children. That’s right. Oh, morally good; sure, fine. But what about it? Dead, through their creeds.
Same now. Cain’s revelation of the Word done the same thing that these has. What? Promised her. At the end of time, what promises this Eve now? Listen close now, I’m closing. What promise to this Eve at the end time? Riches, Laodicea, great name, great person, rich. “But dead, and naked, and don’t know it.” That’s what the church age ended in.

### 4. HEBREWS, CHAPTER ONE — 1957-08-21
- Retrieved chunks: 1

Chunks:
- ¶104–¶108
In that day, He spoke by the prophets, but this day through His Son. That was the word of a prophet, there. This is the Word of the Son, today. Oh, blessed be the Name of the Lord!
In other words, if you’re looking at the shadow, the negative, you might make a mistake. But This is developed, the picture is clear. That was by the prophet; this is by His Son. That was by a negative; this is by a positive. Amen. You see it? There isn’t a chance to lose. It’s a positive thing, this day through His Son. Oh, how wonderful! …whom he has appointed heir…(Oh, my!)…heir of all things,…
What was it? It was an appointment. Oh, listen. He was appointed, Christ was, heir of all things. Oh, the devil knowed that, from the garden of Eden, you see, when the devil heard that Word there that day, in the judgment of those people. Said, “Because you come from the dust, dust you’ll return; and the woman’s Seed shall bruise the serpent’s head.” A promised Seed.
Satan constantly watched for that Seed. When Abel was born, he said, “There you are, that’s the seed.” And he killed Abel. His son, Cain, killed Abel. And as soon as Abel died, he said, “I got the seed.” He slew it. He said, “I got it.” But, Abel’s death, Seth’s birth was the resurrection again. Watch how they come down.
That line of Seth, it come down, a humble, righteous man; on down through Enoch; on down to Noah, to the end of the antediluvian destruction.

### 5. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON THE SEALS — 1963-03-24
- Retrieved chunks: 2

Chunks:
- ¶129–¶132
Yes, sir. That’s exactly right. All right. Now if there’s any…Now if I’m… If I didn’t answer, to suit you, why, maybe I’m…I could be wrong, see. But, this, it’s the best of my knowledge, you see. This is the best of my knowledge. 181. Brother Branham, as you have travailed or tra-…on the serpent’s seed…(Uh-oh, I never noticed this one. This one slipped up on me.)…serpent’s seed this week, will it be in order to ask this question? My friends have asked me to explain Genesis 4:1, and I can’t. Will you help me?
It’s—it’s off of the subject. But, anyhow, I’ll—I’ll—I’ll try my best, by the help of God. Let’s see now. Let me polish up, for just a little bit. I think that’s where she said, “I got a son from the Lord.” I—I believe it is. I think Eve said that there. I’m going to check, be sure.
Cause, I said, the other night, seven…instead of…seven hundred instead of seven thousand. So it makes me so nervous, see, and you just have to be watching. And the enemy on every side, and you—you’re conscious of that, you see. Yes, that’s it. And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have begotten a man from the Lord{: .smcaps}.
Now, I’m just going to answer you a question, my brother, or sister. And now, remember, not—not throwing to you, no. I’m trying to help you, see. I love you, and I love the person who might have been a critic on it. But I don’t think this person is critical. They said, “Help me,” see, because the people believes it, but they’re just not sufficiently posted, by the Spirit, to know what to say to the person that’s asked them that.

- ¶143–¶146
So, yeah, don’t worry. They haven’t got one foot to stand on. See? They don’t believe that be Cain’s son. But we have got a tape on that, if you’d like to hear it explained in detail. See? No, sir.
And I seen they got a piece in the paper up there, where science is now going to prove that Eve never eat a apple, she had an apricot. See? I got the paper up there at home now, see. “It was an apricot.” How— how far can people…That’s a carnal mind, see. “Then, actually, Moses never crossed the water, he crossed through a sea of reeds, brought Israel across at the upper end of the Dead Sea. There was a bunch of reeds there, a whole sea of reeds, just where the waters had been one time, went down, and Moses took a shortcut and went around that way.” And the Orthodox churches accepted it. You seen that. The Orthodox churches accepted it, that that was so.
Oh, man, can’t you see that seed of the serpent, that antichrist, and the whole thing laying right there? Sure. Yes, sir. Brother Branham, please pray for my little…(Well, that’s a prayer request; I see it.) Pray for my little grandson, very ill with the flu. He is in the Riverview Hotel.
Lord Jesus, this poor person here never wrote that just in vain. She seen You just deliberately remove even rheumatic fever from a little boy the other night. She knows that You’re the great God, and we offer our prayers for that little boy. In the Name of Jesus Christ, may he be healed. Amen.

### 6. I WILL RESTORE UNTO YOU, SAITH THE LORD — 1954-08-09
- Retrieved chunks: 2

Chunks:
- ¶24–¶25a
But when His children went to walk away…Let’s take a little drama here for a minute. I can hear something going like this. [Brother I WILL RESTORE UNTO YOU, SAITH THE LORD Branham claps three times—Ed.] What is it? It’s the old bloody sheepskins beating against Adam’s big manly legs as he went walking out of the Presence of God. God couldn’t stand it. All that great eternity there, come down to four letters, l-o-v-e. God so loved, He couldn’t see His children go out in that kind of a condition, separating from Him. He stopped and said, “Wait a minute. I’ll put enmity between your seed and the serpent’s seed,” promising a Saviour. Let’s turn our camera now four thousand years later. There’s a great carrying on in Jerusalem. We’re setting in a building saying, and we say, “What is all that noise about? Where did it come from?” Look out, somebody say, “Well, there’s a holy-roller out there. They’re going to crucify Him this morning. He’s done nothing but just tear up the churches around here and everything. So they’re going to crucify Him.”
Let’s go at the window and look out. There comes the Man down the street over them cobblestones, dragging an old rugged cross. He’s got a garment on wove throughout without seams. As He starts up Golgotha yonder, I begin to look on His back, and I see little red spots all over His coat. I say, “What are those red spots?” I keep watching them. As He goes the spots gets bigger, bigger, bigger; now they all run into one great big bloody spot. I hear something going, [Brother Branham claps three times—Ed.] What is it? The second Adam, the Redeemer, going yonder to Calvary, bearing away, the Lamb of God taking the sin of the world up yonder to Calvary, the most pathetic picture was ever pictured. How could a sinner look in the face of that and remain a sinner, is more than I can tell you. Out of there come two children: one Cain and one Abel. Both of them are men. And Cain was a long ways from being an atheist. Cain was a believer.

- ¶25b–¶26
Now, we want to see where these two spirits…We can’t deal with all the cults and everything, but let’s deal on Fundamentalism and Full Gospel this afternoon, and take these two spirits and bring it out of Genesis. And you stick with me just for a little bit and pray for me now.
Now, here comes Cain and Abel. They’re both brothers from the same mother. And here they come out, and after they’re out of the garden of Eden, they both realize that they have sinned. And both of them are trying to find favor with Jehovah God again. Now, they both are believers. Notice, now this may scorch just a little bit, and it might hurt; but brother, if it hurts, you take it. Just set still a minute, then you examine it by the Word of God. My, when we was raised, little boys, we was so poor. I never will forget. We had a big old cedar tub, and mama would heat the water in a teakettle and pour it in there. And every Saturday night we got a bath, once a week and a dose of castor oil. And I tell you; I taken so much of it; I can’t even stand to smell it today. When I come up to take my dose; I’d hold my nose like this; I’d say, “Mama, it makes me so sick; I can’t even stand it.” She said, “If it don’t make you sick, it don’t do you any good.” So you apply that this afternoon the same way. If it don’t kind of stir you up a little, it might not do you any good. Now, notice, just hold your nose and swallow, it’ll be good.

### 7. JOSEPH MEETING HIS BRETHREN — 1956-12-30
- Retrieved chunks: 2

Chunks:
- ¶89–¶93
Now notice. As soon as God seen the seed of the woman, and how they had been misconstrued there and righteousness had been perverted, God gave a promise that through that woman would come a blessed Seed. You get it? There would be a Seed.
And just as soon as Satan heard that, who was standing present, as soon as he heard it, he took in to destroy that Seed. And he tried to do it in Joseph. He tried all through the age. And he is still against that blessed Seed. Amen.
I want you to put on your deep-thinking caps, just for a minute now. As, put on the helmet of salvation, and listen close now. Here is something real vital. And you may disagree with it; it’s all right. But, did you notice, as soon as…
There had already been a—a conception, for Eve had already lived unrighteous and had committed the sin. Where did that come from? That’s in Genesis. Men today are trying to find the missing link between animal and man. This is revelation. The Bible said, that, “The serpent beguiled the woman.”
Today, man can bring up animal life, and the closest animal they have to the human being is the chimpanzee. They can make him smoke a pipe, ride a bicycle, put on a hat, tip it. That’s just like “gee” and “haw” to a horse. It’s sound. He hasn’t no soul. He can’t think. He can only go by sound. He doesn’t have a soul. Then they got a missing link, right in between here, that they never have been able to find. And for six thousand years they’ve tried to get one mutter out of a chimpanzee, and can’t do it. They never will. But, we know that we’re animal life. We’re plant life, out of the earth.

- ¶102–¶105
But, notice. When he did that, then God, a type of Christ, both death and resurrection, He raised up Seth to take his place. See? And the devil took after Seth.
Now watch. Along, before the antediluvian destruction, there was a long lineage of men who came down through the sons of Cain, from the land of Nod, and they were scientists, smart, intelligent, marvelous men. They even tempered metals. They built homes. They were a marvelous civilization. The Bible goes ahead and said how they worked with copper, how they worked with metal. But, this other group was wanderers.
But, both groups was religious. Cain was religious. Abel was religious. And God drawed a line, which was right. Cain was just as religious as Abel. They both built altars. They both believed in God. They both worshipped God. They both brought gifts.
Now watch them two seeds. One, fighting; the evil trying to destroy the righteous Seed. And he tried to destroy Abel; he did, but God raised up Seth to take his place. He thought he had Jesus right there. Look down through the age, everywhere. He, every place he come, he cornered that Seed. When he slew one, or the other, he thought he had That. And, finally, he—he took after John the Baptist, finally cut his head off. He thought he had Him then, but he found out He was over here in Jesus. He slew all the babies. And, Moses; he tried to kill Moses. He tried every way he could to destroy that Seed, and when he killed Christ at Calvary; but God raised Him up again, the third day, and then He sent the Holy Ghost back to call sons and daughters to God. And that same evil, religious seed is persecuting that righteous Seed yet today. You see it? They’re trying to destroy that righteous Branch of God.

### 8. THE MARK OF THE BEAST AND THE SEAL OF GOD 1 — 1961-02-16
- Retrieved chunks: 2

Chunks:
- ¶52–¶55
I—I don’t believe Brother Graham meant it just like that, because the Elected will not be deceived. No, sir, they will not be deceived, they were foreordained of God, and they will not be deceived. So, but Jesus said that it would be very close together, so close alike, now remember, that it’d be so close that the very Elected could be deceived if it would be possible.
Now, we want to find out where they come from. Where did this all start? As I’ve told you that every cult and every religion began in Genesis, everything we have. The Assemblies of God began in Genesis, the Baptist began in Genesis, I can prove it. Yes, sir. Every cult, even, we have, I can prove it, it begin in Genesis. That’s right. Just search Genesis, and then you got the rest of it, you see what kind of seed it is, you see where it’s going to. See? And just watch it, and it’ll just vine it’s way right through the Bible, just exactly. Both of them begin in Genesis. And we find out that Genesis is the seed chapter.
Now, we find out that the first marking of a human being started in Genesis, Genesis 4:15, God marked Cain. That’s where the first mark of the beast was ever put on, was put on Cain, he is the beginning of it. Now, you say, “Cain having the mark of the beast?”
All right, let’s notice, now, He said, “Thy seed shall bruise the serpent’s head, and his head shall bruise thy heel.” Watch the lineage of Cain, as Cain come down, become scientists, smart men, great men, on down like that. But the seed of Seth as it come down, become peasants, sheepherders, farmers. So, you see, there is…Now, watch, the Bible said, “I’ll put enmity,” God did, “between your seed and the serpent’s seed.” Now, so…

- ¶56–¶59
Now, ministering brethren, just hold your peace just a minute, I—I know they always climb down my neck on this. But the Bible said that the serpent had a seed, that settles it. The serpent’s seed, let it be any way you want to take it, we’ll restrain from that; I got my idea, too. But they…But, be whatever it will, the Bible said in Genesis 1, that, the first of Genesis, that the serpent had a seed.
And now remember, the serpent was not a snake to begin with, a reptile, he was the next thing to a human being. Science has tried for thousands of years to find that missing link between man and beast, THE MARK OF THE BEAST AND THE SEAL OF GOD 1 the closest they can come is to a chimpanzee, but they cannot get from the chimpanzee to the human being. Why? It was the serpent.
Now, if you notice in Genesis 3:1, “The beast…The serpent was the most subtle of all the beasts of the field.” A beast, not a reptile. He was more like a man, he looked like a man, he was that missing link in between there, because that’s the only way. The seed of a human will not coincide with the seed of a animal. But this fellow was the only one the devil could use, because it was just between man and beast. In the genealogies…
I believe in evolution. The first thing maybe, when there was nothing but just plain chaos, volcanic eruption…You know, God is a great Contractor. You believe that? A great contractor always lays out all of his stuff when he builds his subdivision. God, when He was moving the earth around, creating calcium, potash, and petroleum, and so forth, He was laying our bodies on the earth right then, the material that we’re made out of.s